In this lecture, I'll still talk about
security, but now about End-user authentication.
Up until now, I've talked about service-to-service
communication; I showed you how to enable mutual TLS
for service-to-service authentication.
After having strong identities using the
x.509 certificates that mutual TLS provides,
I showed you how to use role based access control (RBAC).
In this lecture, I will explain
end-user to service authentication.
Istio currently supports JWT tokens
to authenticate end-users.
JWT stands for JSON web tokens.
It's an open standard for representing claims securely
between two parties; see jwt.io for more information.
It's a website created by Auth0
and explains JWT tokens in a really simple way.
In our implementation, we will receive
a JWT token from an authentication
server after logging in.
It will still be our hello world app,
so the app that we have been using until now
we can also log into it,
and then we will receive a JWT token.
The app will provide us with a token,
this JWT token, that is signed with a key.
The data is not encrypted, but the token
contains a signature, which can be
verified to see whether it was
really created by the server.
Only the server has the private key,
so we cannot recreate or tamper with the token.
If you would change anything in this token,
then the signature wouldn't be valid anymore
because the signature is calculated based on
the contents of this token
and then it would not work anymore.
So, it's only the server who could issue
a token because it has the private key.
This is an example of a token.
It consists of three parts divided by a dot.
So, here the three parts have different colors.
The first part contains the headers,
the second part contains the payload,
and the third part is a signature
based on the headers and the payload.
You can use jwt.io to decode the token.
The headers are, in this case, alg from algorithm, HS256.
This is a symmetric encryption algorithm, so you just have
a key, some text that you use, and then if you have
this text, this password, then you can
encrypt and encrypt it.
We are not going to use HS256.
We going to use RS256, which is asymmetric,
so you have a private and a public key,
not just one password or key.
This now has advantage
that we can make the signature using our private key
and that we can give someone our public key
that can then verify the signature.
How this exactly works, I will show you
in a diagram in one of the next slides.
The second argument here is typ; you just JWT,
so these are some headers
that can be used then to interpret this JWT.
The body you choose for the bodies
there are some keys attached meaning
and then there are keys that you can just
make up two stores for (mumbles).
Here we have sub, stands for subject.
This can be a URL, a website, it can be anything;
what this token is about.
Then we have the name; the name
is something that we chose ourself.
It's John Doe in this case,
so this can be used by an application code
to see who is logging in, for example.
Iat stands for issued at
and this is a timestamp to see when
this token was issued.
And this we can use later on as well.
We can also have expiration if the token
needs to expire after a certain time.
In web apps using authentication,
the server can issue a JWT token when
the user is authenticated,
and that is what our hello world is going to do.
In the JWT payload, data can be stored,
like a user name, but also groups and so on.
This can then used later by the app,
when the user sends new requests.
Now we know the log in,
we know the user, we know the group,
we can then see if the user has access
to multi (mumbles) requests.
If the signature in a token is valid,
then the JWT is valid, and the data
within a token can be used.
So, it's important in the application code
to always verify the signature,
so to make sure that nobody change this data in this token.
This can also be used as an alternative approach
to server sessions, in this case
some session data is stored local at the client.
In building web apps, you can have local sessions
stored or remote sessions stored.
JWT tokens are sometimes used as a session store,
as well, because you can store data in it.
We are just going to store some data in it
to then make decisions in our app
to see whether someone has access to this servers.
Using microservices, every app would have
to be separately configured.
Every service would need to validate the token, so
when the token comes in,
if you have lots of microservices,
maybe lots of languages, you all have to have library
to interpret this JWT token
and you have to validate the token
by validating the signature.
Once validated, the service would need to check
whether the user has access to this
service, which is authorization.
With istio, this can be taken away from
app code and managed centrally.
This is a really big thing.
You can take away this from the application development
and bring this in a dev ops world
because you can then manage the JWT sessions in istio
and do the authentication and authorization
using this JWT token,
and this change from that dev team
to the dev ops team is actually really big.
You can configure the JWT token,
the signature, and the properties
you expect in istio and then create policies
to allow or disallow access to a service.
You still need to tell istio,
this is a token that I expect,
this is how you have to verify the token,
and then you can configure policies on the services
based on properties within this JWT token.
For example, the hello app can only be accessed
if the user is authenticated.
The sidecar envoy will verify the validity
of the signature to make sure the token is valid.
How does this work?
We have a client,
client communicates with the istio-ingress
and the istio-ingress is then going to redirect the client
to either the hello-authenticator or the hello pod.
What you want to achieve is that
everyone can try and authenticate themselves,
but the hello pod is only accessible
if you are authenticated.
We don't want to put any authentication logic
in the hello pod.
We don't want turn on authentication
authorization in the code.
In this case, istio will
manage authentication authorization for that user.
First, client needs to authenticate itself,
so it's going to go to /login, and this /login
will reply the JWT token.
The app is really simple, so you just apply a login.
It doesn't really check on passwords
and then you're logged in, you get the JWT token.
If you're writing your own authentication server
then, obviously, you need to check on a password, as well.
Or on whatever you need to authenticate yourself.
Once a client has this JWT token,
it can contact the hello pod
using this JWT token, so it will send
the request to get the main page
together with the JWT token to the app.
It will end up at the Envoy proxy
and the envoy proxy, rather than just
routing the request to the hello app,
it will first have to validate this JWT token.
It can only validate the JWT token
if it has the public key
because the JWT token has a signature,
but it still needs to validate whether it's correct.
It doesn't have the private key
because that would be an unsecure.
The private key is only on the hello-auth pod,
so the hello-auth pod created this JWT token
using the private key,
but it can still be verified
using a public key, so this is a RSA encryption algorithm
that is being used just like with HSA keys.
To know this public key, it needs to download it first.
We are going to dial istio,
where it can download it.
And, typically, it's downloadable at the same microservice
that signed the JWT token.
This URL is hard coded in the Policy,
so here we have the configuration JWT.
We're looking for the issuer
in this JWT token
that is equal to, to this, so
this hello-auth app
when it created this JWT token,
this is the issuer that it configured in this token.
It's just a key value pair
that needs to be the same.
And if you need to verify it,
you need to go to this URL:
authkubernetesnewtechacademy/well-known/jwks.json,
and in this jwks.json, we have the public key.
The envoy proxy will go to this URL,
which is our hello-auth
and will retrieve this jwks.json,
and, in this file, we have the public key.
And once envoy has the public key,
it can validate this JWT token.
Once the JWT is valid
and the issuer is equal to this string
that is configured in the policy,
then it will grant access to the clients
to access the hello pod.
If the client tampered with the JWT token,
it will not validate,
if the issuer is not correct,
access will not granted.
Only if everything is correct,
then access will be granted to the client.
So this way we can build an authentication
mechanism for the end-user
without having every microservice know how
the authentication mechanism works.
The hello pod doesn't need to know anything about the JWT.
It will all be handled by istio and the sidecar.
In the next demo, I will show you exactly this.